Are you struggling to provide for yourself or your family?
Many today lack the basic necessity, such as food, clean water, adequate housing.
And this causes some to question whether God really cares about humans.
But as Jehovah's people, we are different.
We know that Jehovah cares for all of his creation.
But we all know that it is a test of our faith when things get difficult.
So the question is how can we build our faith so that we are strong and it can help us
get through difficult times?
One way is by examining how Jehovah provides for his animal creation.
Now why is that helpful?
Well that examination gives us confidence that he will care for us as well.
As an example in the following video, note how Jehovah provides food for a massive sea
creature.
The largest animal alive on earth today is also the largest that has ever lived.
The blue whale.
Blue whales can grow to be over 30 meters long and weigh up to 180 tons.
Its heart alone may weigh several hundred kilograms.
How does such a large creature find enough to eat?
The blue whale migrates great distances to find tiny crustaceans known as krill.
When a blue whale finds a school of krill, it accelerates towards the krill.
Opens its giant mouth.
They main gulf hundreds of kilograms of krill with each lunge, amounting to several
tons per day.
Blue whales eat a lot, yet Jehovah provides for them and he will provide for us.
There is the sea, so great and wide, teeming with countless living things, both small and
great.
Now we are amazed at the way Jehovah provides for all of his animal creation, including
the sea creatures.
The Bible describes this well if you look at Psalm 104, verses 27 and 28.
Psalm 104, 27 and 28.
All of them wait for you to give them their food in its season.
What you give them, they gather.
When you open your hand, they are satisfied with good things.
Yes, meditating on this aspect of creation builds our faith.
For example, from the video, do you remember the size of this creature?
Now can you imagine if you have the assignment to feed just one blue whale?
You just make sure that one whale has enough to eat every day.
Can you imagine that?
Where would we start?
We have to hire teams of people, figure out how to get the food and how to move the
food to where the blue whale is swimming.
After we figure out where he is swimming, why it would be a full-time job?
And that would be to feed just one whale and this thousands of them.
And yet Jehovah has it all arranged day after day, we don't even think about it.
You notice in verse 27 it says that all of them wait for Jehovah to give them their
food.
Now it doesn't mean that the whale just kind of floats on the top of the water and
waits for food to jump in his mouth.
Now it swims, it looks for the food when it finds it, it goes after it, but Jehovah provides
it.
In verse 28 it says, what he gives them, they gather.
Now you cannot imagine that blue whale thinking, come on really, I'm 180 tons and you're
going to feed me with a little crustacean, couldn't we have just worked out that I eat
a couple big tuna every day?
No, they gather what Jehovah gives them.
And verse 28 goes on to say they are satisfied with Jehovah's provisions.
So what's the point?
Well, did you notice the comment in the video?
It said, Jehovah provides for them and he will provide for us.
See, meditating on creation can build our faith, strengthen our faith in Jehovah's
support.
Note the four lessons that we learn from how Jehovah cares for his creation.
The first is is that if Jehovah has the desire to care for animals and provide for their
needs, do you think that Jehovah has the desire to care for you and your family?
Remember what Jesus expressed in Matthew chapter 6, verse 26, where there, he explained
how Jehovah cares for his creation, even the small birds.
And he said, are you not worth more than they are?
Yes, if Jehovah feels compelled to care for his animal creation, we can be assured that
he feels compelled to care for you and your family.
A second lesson is that we do not need to be unduly anxious about tomorrow.
Rather, we can confidently ask Jehovah for our daily needs.
Look in Matthew chapter 6, verse 31 and 32, Matthew 6, 31 and 32, his says, so never
be anxious and say, what are we to eat or what are we to drink or what are we to wear?
For all these are the things the nations are eagerly pursuing.
Your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
Yes, Jehovah knows we need them.
He knows exactly what we need and he promises to provide it.
And if Jehovah has the capacity to feed a 180 ton blue whale, do you think he has the
capacity to feed you and me and our families?
Absolutely.
See, we do the best that we can and then we trust in Jehovah to do the rest.
And like it mentioned there in Psalms with the animal creation, we wait on Jehovah
and we are satisfied with what he provides.
Our third point is that Jehovah will not abandon us when we face trials.
Look at Hebrews chapter 13 and the latter part of verse 5.
Hebrews 13.5, he says, I will never leave you and I will never abandon you.
Jehovah will never abandon us.
He will care for us even through our hard times.
Now how can that help us?
Well, that can help us to make good decisions, good decisions regarding our employment, care
for our family, worship of Jehovah.
We will remember Jesus words in Matthew chapter 6 verse 33 where he says, seek first the
kingdom and all these other things will be given to you.
And finally, our fourth point, Jehovah promises that he will abundantly care for all of our
needs in the future.
We think of that beautiful promise in Isaiah chapter 65 and verse 22 where it says, for
the days of my people will be like the days of a tree.
Now the blue whale is thought to live 80 to 90 years and Jehovah keeps providing for it.
He does not have a limited supply of provision.
Well, that gives us confidence that it's not beyond Jehovah's ability to fulfill his promise
and care for us through all eternity.
So yes, Jehovah's word and his creation give us irrefutable proof of his constant loving
care, proof that he cares for us today, that he will care for us through our difficult
days and proof that he will care for us through all eternity.
So may all of us continue to build our faith, fortify our trust in Jehovah, become powerful
by faith.
We need that faith now and we most definitely will need it to face what is to come.
Now brother Ron Kerzen, a helper to the teaching committee, will present the final talk of
this symposium, use creation to build your faith, our bodies.